Create mpas section (#136)
open-component-model/ocm-website: content/en/mpas/core_concepts.md

---
title: "Core Concepts"
description: Core Concepts of Mpas.
lead: ""
date: 2023-09-12T10:37:58+01:00
lastmod: 2023-09-12T10:37:58+01:00
draft: true
images: []
weight: 101
toc: true
---

## Product

Products are packages of software that can be deployed to a Kubernetes cluster.
Products are made available to the `MPAS` system as `OCM` Components via a Subscription.

> Multiple instances of a Product may be installed that refer to same Subscription.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multiple instances of a Product may be installed that refer to the same Subscription.
```

A `ProductDeployment` is a Kubernetes Custom Resource that represents a product to 
be deployed to a Kubernetes cluster. The `ProductDeployment` is reconciled by the

> `MPAS Product Controller` which will generate the necessary Kubernetes resources

Reviewer: Probably make `MPAS Product Controller` a link to the actual controller?

The `ProductDescription` is retrieved by the `MPAS Product Controller` in order to
generate the `ProductDeployment` resource during a `ProductDeploymentGenerator` reconciliation.

A `ProductDeploymentPipeline` is a Kubernetes Custom Resource that defines a resource
that needs to be deployed as part of the `ProductDeployment`. The `ProductDeploymentPipeline` is
reconciled by the `MPAS Product Controller` as part of the `ProductDeployment` deployment.

## Project

A `Project` is a Kubernetes Custom Resource that is used to manage the lifecycle of
a `MPAS` project. A `Project` is reconciled by the `MPAS Project Controller` which
will generate a project namespace and a git repository for the project containing
the project folder structure. The controller will also generate the necessary
`Flux kustomization` resources in the `mpas-system` namespace in order to update
the cluster with the project resources from the git repository.

The project git repository is designed to be used as a gitops repository for the
project. It is where all the product custom resources are to be defined in order
to be deployed to the cluster.

> 

Reviewer: Maybe mention that a Project CR will have an inventory of created items in its status?

## Subscription

The purpose of a Subscription is to replicate `OCM` components containing a particular
Product from a delivery registry to a registry in the `MPAS` customer's environment.

A `ComponentSubscription` is a Kubernetes Custom Resource that represents a subscription
to a component. The `ComponentSubscription` is reconciled by the `OCM Replication Controller`

> which will generate the necessary Kubernetes resources to replicate the component to the

Reviewer: The replication controller doesn't generate any resources. It's just doing an ocm `Transfer`.

target registry.

## Target

A `Target` is a Kubernetes Custom Resource that represents a target environment where
a `Product` is to be deployed. The `Target` is reconciled by the `MPAS Product Controller`

> which will generate the necessary Kubernetes namespace and service account for the target.

Reviewer: This only happens in case of a Kubernetes target. Let's say something like... the Product controller reconciles the Target and creates any necessary prerequisite that need to exist in the target environment.

Or something like that.

---
title: "Core Concepts"
description: Core Concepts of Mpas.
lead: ""
date: 2023-09-12T10:37:58+01:00
lastmod: 2023-09-12T10:37:58+01:00
draft: true
images: []
weight: 101
toc: true
---

## Product

> Products are packages of software that can be deployed to a Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Products are packages of software that can be deployed to targets such as Kubernetes clusters, virtual machines or bare-metal devices.
```

Products are made available to the `MPAS` system as `OCM` Components via a Subscription.
Multiple instances of a Product may be installed that refer to the same Subscription.

A `ProductDeployment` is a Kubernetes Custom Resource that represents a product to 

> be deployed to a Kubernetes cluster. The `ProductDeployment` is reconciled by the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
be deployed to a target. The `ProductDeployment` is reconciled by the
```

`MPAS Product Controller` which will generate the necessary Kubernetes resources

> to deploy the product to the cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to deploy the product to the target.
```
